Active Directory Theory
Active Directory consists of several
components with the most
important being the
domain controller (DC).
The domain controller is the hub
and core of Active Directory
because it stores all information
about how the specific
instance of Active
Directory is configured.
It also enforces various sets of rules
that govern how objects within the domain
interact with each other,
and what services and tools
are available to end users.
When an instance of Active Directory
is configured, a domain is created
with a name such as corp.com where
corp is the name of the organization.
Within this domain, we can add
various types of objects,
including computer and user objects.
System administrators usually organize
these objects with the help of
Organizational Units (OU), which are
comparable to file system folders
in that they are containers used
to store and group other objects.
Computer objects represent actual
servers and workstations
that are part of the domain,
also referred to as domain-joined,
and user objects represent
employees in the organization.
All AD objects contain attributes, which
vary according to the type of object.
For example, a user object may
include attributes such as first name,
last name, username, and password.
Typically, client computers on an
internal network are connected
to the domain controller and to
various other internal member servers
such as database servers,
file storage servers, and so forth.
In addition, many organizations have
Internet-connected web servers
which sometimes are also
members of the internal domain.
Active Directory can be intimidating
as it includes many concepts and
features that we can’t fully cover.
Instead, we’ll introduce basic
AD terms and language
and provide you with additional
knowledge required
to perform enumeration
and exploitation.